# DigitalDairy-PDF
Python program to generate PDF digital diary.
This is a personal project for me to learn python programmming, which i did using opepyxl initially and later abandoned that code in favor of reportlab based PDF generation. In this case, i wanted to test if the latest, free,versions of the AI tools can generate the code from my English description of the code - i gave 12 requirements. ChatGPT did try to come out with the code but it couldnt fully comprehend my requirements. I found Claude to be very comprehensive in terms of not only understanding my requirements but also gave a highly defensive approach- for example, if you want a certain background for the diary it would check for the backgroung image in a specific place and if not, it will generate some image and use this, instead of the code throwing out some incomprehensible errors. The code is almost 100% generated by AI.
Currently, although i have integrated a password based ecurity for the diary, it doesnt yet have the personal information to be put in the diary- need a little time to make this work.
Added PIM on 3/9/3=2025. But not yet tested in addition, need to fix fonts, background and also page 3. Will do them in a while.

Here is how you can use it to generate a personal diary -

Install reportlab library using pip or your favorite package manager and if you want install Dancing Script fone to enhance the beauty.

The background images for the 4 seasons should be stored in the images subfolder as: summer_bg.jpg, winter_bg.jpg,autumn_bg.jpg, spring_jpg.

Then run: python enhanced_diary.py  2025 # for the 2025 diary or anyother year so that 1900 < yaer < 2100.

If all goes well, you will be prompted for a password to encrypt the PDF and if you successfully give the password, diary_2025.pdf will be created in the current folder.

Features (as per what Claude understood!):-


ðŸŽ¨ Features included:

   1. Seasonal backgrounds for all 12 months
   2. 10 US holidays are included
   3. All weekends (Saturdays & Sundays) highlighted
   4. Interactive navigation between months and days
   5. Fillable form fields for activities and notes 
   6. External image backgrounds from 'images/' folder

ðŸ–¥ï¸  To use the clickable navigation:
   1. Open the PDF in Firefox: firefox diary_2025.pdf
   2. Or use Chrome: google-chrome diary_2025.pdf,in Linux I could use evince diary_2025.pdf
   3. Click on month tabs to navigate between months
   4. Click on calendar dates to jump to specific days
   5. Holidays shown in red, weekends in blue
   6. Uses the acroForm for the user to write down Activities/Notes etc.

As you may have guessed, several improvements/bug fixes, personalizations etc are possible. The code is 100%  claude generated so please feel free to twist it, change it, fork off .....
Thanks!
